>> Welcome to Understanding PKI and Certificate Management.
We've done some coverage of this last year, but
it still seems that there's some IT organizations
that have a little bit of struggle
understanding kind of the whole trust model
and the whole certificate management within the OS.
So we really kind of wanted to readdress this and we're
going to be hitting on obviously some Leopard features as well.
So let's jump right on in.
Welcome, my name is Shawn Geddis.
I'm a Security Consulting Engineer in
the Enterprise division in Apple Sales.
So let's cover this a little bit more in depth.
First of all, what do we want to introduce to you all?
There's the reliance on trust.
So we're going to talk about trusted
identities in the digital world.
We're going to talk about creating, managing
and distributing digital identities.
We're going to be covering enabling security enhanced
collaboration once you have these identities,
what can you do with them?
What kind of services?
And hopefully highlight the approach that Apple has taken to
simplify the whole kind of PKI as it's deployed in systems.
So hopefully out of that you're going to
learn what exactly an identity is.
If you are new to this space, if you're kind of getting
your feet wet, learning how, what solutions you have to use
or what kind of tools you need use, you're going to
learn a little bit more about identities themselves.
How you need to go about retrieving,
storing and validating those identities.
Establishing the trust, because again
this is the key with PKI dealing
with certificates is establishing and validating that trust.
Services like signing and encrypting and authenticating.
And of course we want to highlight the built in services
that we have in the OS that you can directly rely
on as an end user, as an administrator, really in
the deployment and use of, of these identities.
So in a lot of these discussions we at least
have to get it all on the same page and figure
out what it is that we're trying to, to solve.
What problems are you trying to
address with deploying identities?
And first of all, in the digital
world you have to prove who you are.
So some assertion that I'm Shawn and
I have to prove that in some manner.
So that's a user experience challenge we have.
Second is if I'm going to prove that, how
in the world do I acquire this object,
whatever it is that I'm, I'm proving who I am.
Then once I get that, how do I retain it?
How do I protect it?
How do I take it with me?
The portability.
Because I'm, I'm a moving individual, I move between
systems, I physically move it...move between states
or countries, how do I keep that with me?
Protecting the confidentiality
and of course the data integrity.
How do I use these identities, the certificates
and keys involved to protect my information?
Make sure that only the right people see this?
And of course some of the other
collaboration with trusted identity.
On the IT side, so if your administration, if
you're the managing infrastructure on this,
what are some of the challenges that you're trying to solve?
First of all, how do you verify, if I'm an
individual and I'm asserting that I'm Shawn Geddis,
how do you on the back end, how do you validate that?
Right, how do you prove that indeed I am who say I am?
And how do generate this?
How do you do all the management of those
identities, whether they are users or machine?
And then again how do you leverage the built in services?
There's always going to be some third party solutions as well,
but we want to specifically talk about the built in services.
Okay, so for some of you that are new to
this and just kind of review for others,
let's talk about some of the key pieces of PKI.
There's a lot of folks, a lot of end users and
I'm probably sure that each one of you have these.
End users that say could you install PKI on my system.
As if it's an application or a particular tool.
There's a lot more to it.
There's a lot more pieces, most of the,
the services that many folks will talk
about are the certificate authorities,
which we're going to talk about today.
The registration authorities, that's basically how
you're getting things started with the issuance piece.
The certificate server.
That's really kind of tied in more with your directories.
And then time stamps, really when you're validating that.
But the key take away today is we're going to be focusing a
lot on the CA, and then reliance on a trusted third party.
That's really the basis of PKI.
So let's look at some of the components.
Again this is kind of review hopefully for most of you.
New information for some.
The whole thing in PKI is, is the cryptography
of the whole asymmetric public, private keys.
Right and the combination of these keys, it's a mathematical
relation, so if I encrypt something with a public key,
I can decrypt it with a private key solution.
Again this is all tied into the certificates as well.
And the public key of course is
available in the certificates.
Its issued...with again you're doing a request
and we're going to cover each one of these.
You're doing your generation of your keys in the
reference to the public key as part of your certificate.
You verify the signatures with the private
again that's that asymmetric association.
And then you're going to encrypt
that data to be sent to some user.
For instance, you use a public key
from someone to encrypt that message.
The private key is what I as a user would retain to, to
do my decryption of data coming to me to again associated
with my assertion of who I am, signing data and all.
Again that's the association of the keys.
I've mentioned a couple of times,
the reference to my identity.
So what is an identity?
It's that combination of the pairing of that
certificate and the corresponding private key.
So they go hand in hand together being that identity.
And the certificate itself, you see a whole bunch
of the information related to the certificate.
Think of for some that new to PKI, a certificate
is very much of like a, a bill of materials.
When you're shipping a lot of product, it's the,
the reference to all the components
that make up that whole package.
And then of course the associated with the
private key is something you have and you retain.
So let me move on here.
When you think of an identity, we
typically think of okay, I'm only myself.
But in the digital world you may be asserting
that a different identity or multiple identities.
That could be something with, again here,
references different names or email addresses.
It could be issued by different issuers,
different certificate authorities,
and it could actually have different usages
for each one of those identities as well.
So you have the ability and the frequent
use of having multiple identities.
So let's run through each one of these areas and
hopefully give you some insight about how we're doing this
on OS X and how you need to kind of
tie into to some of these services.
Obtaining an identity.
I mentioned about first off you have to get that identity
to be able to assert who you are in the digital world.
And these are all issued and available
from a certificate authority or a CA.
And the two typical methods of
that is you're going to request it
from some well known certificate
authority, or you're going to create your own.
You either rely on the expertise of someone else
or you take that issuance into your own hands.
And again we're going to cover some of these
today both in kind of the presentation
and also some of the demonstrations here.
So let's walk through how you would
do this with a trusted third party,
a traditional certificate authority
in a acquiring this identity.
So on Bob's computer I'm going to
generate my key pairs locally.
And I'm then doing this request to the
certificate authority to sign my request.
To actually issue me a certificate.
So the request is a CSR, certificate signing request.
And that new certificate really comes back
down from the certificate authority once they've
validated all my information and they say good to go.
I get that issued back to me, downloaded into the keychain.
Really in kind of side.
Well, you take a slightly alternate method.
And this is where the generation of the key pairs aren't
down on the client side, they're actually generated
on the back end, on the CA or on the infrastructure
that the organization is using for the issuance.
So in this case, the certificate authority
has generated my public private keys
and has already essentially signed my certificate.
And is now issuing me that as an object.
Okay, the object could be a P12 file.
It's kind of a wrapping of the
private key in that certificate
or it could actually be in something like a smart card.
Protection there of my identity.
So I already have it in a physical keychain.
That's how I finally get that back
and available to my system.
If I get, if I get in a P12 file format, I
will, I would import it right into my keychain.
If I had it in a smart card, I now have it
available with me portable between systems.
Okay, if you already have the infrastructure and you
already have your CA in place and you've issued these,
how do you bring that into OS X environment?
Well again the standard format is what I just mentioned,
the P12 where it really is a wrapping
of the private key and the certificate.
And typically it's a file based, its password
protected, and you're exporting it from your issuance,
typically some folks will do like IE on, on a Windows side
receives their identity, save it as a P12 file and take it
on over to particularly their Mac environment.
Well, once you have that P12 file, in keychain access,
you can just import that, directly from import menu,
you can drag it on top of keychain access.
We're going to do a little bit showing of that later on.
But many of you actually need to script
this in kind of in deployment environments.
You can leverage the security command in user bin security.
And physically import that key.
Import that, the rapid, wrapped P12 content into
the keychain whether you want to do it into the log
in keychain or specific users keychain.
Now we also are going to cover today the creation
of certificates, creation of identities.
Again, remember we talked about two methods.
One is your request and have someone else do it for you.
The second is you take that into your
own hands and you do the issuance.
That's where you would define your own root certificate.
You do the issuance from your own CA or sub CA and you,
then you provide those root certificates to all your users.
That's where if you created a community of interest, you
know various collaborative environments that you wanted
to issue your own certificates for
that outside of the, a commercial CA,
you just wanted to issue it inside your
organization, again this is a good typical use of that.
We talked about obtaining, now how do I access these?
Whether you're going to send encrypted email messages
or you're going to access even your own identities
locally on the machine, how do we get to this?
Well, your identities are actually
stored physically in keychain files.
And you would see this within keychain
access or like I mentioned with a smart card.
And right now those are typically
the storage locally for users.
But many of you need to get to, for
instance, the public certificate for folks
if you're going to send them encrypted
content through mail or other means.
You need to get access to that public certificate.
Well the method is to have a publicly accessible or within
your network, an LDAP accessible directory service
that within OS X can pull that certificate
directly from that LDAP accessible server.
We're going to talk about a little bit about that further.
But the two attributes we're pulling are the
user certificate and the user S/MIME certificate.
Okay. So if I'm viewing this, this view here of
keychain access is actually a new view of Leopard
and you'll see there that I've
selected my certificates on the left.
Right, some people have gotten confused by that.
The certificates entry is just certificates.
When I select my certificates,
that those are really identities.
Those are showing the certificates and the corresponding
private keys, and again this was used for Leopard for 10.5.
And you'll see that we're actually now showing you
the pairing of which private key to which certificate.
And that's new.
That wasn't available in 10.4.
( Clapping. )  I didn't do it, but.
So locating I mentioned about the LDAP accessible.
Some folks have been unsure about how to do this.
So there two components to that.
One is setting up directory service
access from your OS X client first.
And in 10.4 you had a utility in your
utilities folder called Directory Access.
And you configure the LDAP plug-in
accessible to your LDAP server.
And as long as you had a vanilla LDAP environment,
you didn't really have to do anything beyond that.
If you changed the schema or fooled around with some
of the attributes, you may have to tweak it again.
Remember the user certificate and user S/MIME.
Now in 10.5, there's a new version of
that tool called Directory Utility.
That's the first half of the configuration.
The second half is within Keychain, if you go
into preferences, in the first general tab of that,
you're seeing that you could search
dot Mac for certificates,
or you could search your directory
services for certificates.
So if you do both of those parts of the configuration,
you now have the ability for services like mail to pull
that public certificate from that remote LDAP server.
Okay. Now what do we do about using this?
Okay, let's run through just a couple of these.
And help people better understand how we have
approached simplifying the complexities of PKI.
One thing to point out is that we, we target
very much a zero configuration environment.
We want to reduce that to the least
amount of effort that you as user
and as an administrator need to
do to leverage the PKI services.
So in this case, if I'm doing Mail,
as long as I have an identity,
right I've got the appropriate certificate
there for signing of an email message.
And I've got the corresponding email
address, my compose window for a new message
in Mail will automatically then show or make, reveal
to me the ability to sign and encrypt that message.
If I don't have the corresponding
identity available in any of my keychains,
whether its smart card based or a
file based, I'll never see that.
So there's been a lot of folks that say what
do I do to configure Mail to use this identity?
The key is you're just entering the email address
within Mail that corresponds to the identity,
essentially the email signing that
you have in one of your key stores.
In conjunction with that is the ability to encrypt to a
user, if I'm sending one to Joe, Juser at company dot com,
if my system has access to a public certificate, essentially
public key there, public certificate for that user
for that email address, then I will have
the ability of encrypting that message,
whether that certificate is locally already in a
keychain or whether I have access to it through LDAP.
Related to that is when you're getting into
using identities with secure web access.
One of the pieces that people have run into
typically has been related to some SSL VPN accesses.
Of late, they've had some challenges on this.
And so we want to talk about and reveal to you
some of the enhancements we've done in this area.
So if you're doing client side
authentication, your identity, your certificate,
the first one that's valid here is presented to the,
the remote server that you're attempting to connect to.
And in the event that that was not accepted, right?
In other words if you, if you have
these multiple identities,
I'd have a scenario where the server rejects
it because it's not the right identity.
And now I as a user need to select from
the available identities that are left,
in this case available certificate, right?
Again, we want to get as close to
zero configuration as possible.
But since you have multiple identities that have the
valid usage in the scenario, you as a user would have to,
need to select, so that next time
we wouldn't have to reselect this.
When you get into remote access, both the
VPN solutions, layer two, point to point,
and of course 8 0 2 dot 1 X also provide for
EAP-TLS user authentication with certificates.
So whether they're file based or smart card based,
the services have all been there within 10.4,
and again we're doing some more
stuff in, in 10.5 there as well.
Now, I had mentioned a couple times
about these multiple identities.
That's been a challenge to some of you in environments
where the remote service may not properly respond
or properly respond at the lowest level of
rejection, at the protocol or handshake level.
And so picking of an identity has been
somewhat of a challenge for some of you.
So I want to show you what challenges you faced
and how we've improved in that environment.
If you're picking one, you've probably seen several of these
dialogues again, kind of like the Safari dialogue before.
In this case, selecting from available identities
for connectivity to this particular service.
And I believe we've got one more there.
So you can even reveal the certificate.
But you've given this opportunity to select one, right?
But that's only if the service that you're
connecting to responded properly on the back end.
And we want to review that in a little bit.
Once you've made that selection, what
happens behind the scenes is that a,
an identity preference is then
created and put into your keychain.
And remember we talked about zero configuration.
I don't ever want to have to reset that
every time I go to this service to pick
which identity I want to use, which certificate.
So once I make that selection for the first time, I
now have this identity preference added to my keychain
so the next time I go to that service, it automatically
relies on this preference for Safari and other services.
And it transparently resolves to the appropriate
one that I've selected, personal preference.
This is again that new view in 10.4, I'm looking at
my certificates, I now have those three identities.
What if I'm in one of those situations, again many of you I
think have faced this, particularly with SSL VPN solutions.
Where the proper response from the server doesn't come back.
For instance if you connect to say SSL VPN, what,
typically what you're getting back is a web page that says,
oh by the way you need to select an identity.
Or send the right certificate.
So as in a Catch 22 situation for you where
it didn't respond so you didn't get a list
to select from, but it kept telling you select one.
So in this case, you're going to need to manually
set some identities in these environments.
Now in 10.5, we've given you this ability so contextual
menus within keychain gives you the option now
of manually setting identity preferences.
And so by doing that you can now enter that URL,
and select which identity is associated with that.
If you look closer though, here also
gives you the ability of email addresses.
So if I have multiple identities for doing email
signing, I can now manually set that and
mail dot app will respect that and leverage and use that
identity as opposed to the first one within the system.
Okay I think several of you at least that I've been
dealing with over the years, have had a struggle with that
because there's no manual or there's no method
within mail to select between identities.
Here you can manually set that in Leopard.
Again this is a, kind of a walk through
entering the URL and selecting the certificate.
It gives you the ability of even going back later on and
editing that, changing the identity that you want to use
for that plus modifying that URL or, or email address.
So again a closer view of the contents.
Now, if we get to one of the, the later
pieces of, of certificate approaches.
And that is we always have to validate
these things to be sure they're still good.
It's kinda like your credit card.
You know you get issued a credit card, you
may use it but it may have been canceled.
So they're always having to check
to be sure that it's still valid.
So credit card kind of analogy here with certificates.
There's gotta be some other party that we go
to, to check to be sure that it is still good.
And there's a couple different methods for that.
The kind of legendary method is called
CRL or certificate revocation list.
And to help people understand this, it's kinda
like downloading the phone book and then you look
through the phone book to figure out
whether someone still has a phone number.
Whether they're still in the phone book.
And the problem with that is as your end user
base grows, as your corporation base grows,
so does that database as you're revoking
the certificates, the identities here.
And so what happens is that can grow so large that it now
slows down every single process, every single transaction
that you're doing that has to go
out and validate the certificate.
There's some access to being able
to the related to the caches
or in user bin CRL refresh, that
actually fetches the cache.
And you can even force a refresh on that as well.
But that's related to certificate revocation list.
The other method is OCSP, or the
online certificate status protocol.
This rather than having to download the phone book, it's
like calling up the operator and say is Shawn still there?
Does he have a phone number?
Okay, he's valid, let's go on.
So the communication demands are low and
as your user base grows, it's that same.
So it's kind of a consistent bandwidth usage.
This is where a lot of folks are
moving away from CRL and go to OCSP.
Again we've got the services built into OS X.
And if you're dealing with OCSP you actually
have the authority information access specified
within that certificate.
One thing to note is if you're looking on OS X and you're
looking for a process specifically for CRL you won't see it.
There will be a process called OCSP,
OCSPD that's doing both of those.
And so it's handling CRL and OCSP
requests on the client there.
Within the preferences within Keychain, and I point
this out because by default these are turned off.
So most environments are going to want to enable this.
This is where you determine kind of
by your policy how you want those,
the validation methods to be utilized
or to be used within your environment.
As I mentioned, CRL is kind of
the legendary approach to this.
And there's people that are issuing new certificates
using new certificate authorities of their own.
A lot of them are, are just kind of starting out with OCSP.
A lot of people may be bridging between the two.
You may have issued some with CRLs
and now you're moving on to OCSP.
We support both, even give you the ability
of prioritizing which one is valid.
So when the validation of a certificate is done, it's going
to attempt to follow your preferences here and in this case,
I've set both of them to be best
attempt, so it's going to first try OCSP.
If it can't get that validation, can't get
to the server, it's going to move on to CRL
until I get either a positive validation
of that certificate or I fail to get it.
Leads back into the validation of certificate.
Again, a little bit later some of my colleagues
will be sharing some more information on that.
This gives you just kind of a quick
shot of each one of those options.
And for those of you that are building some end to end
infrastructure here, there are some OCSP validators
on the server both from Tumbleweed and Core Street
that actually have OS X Server implementations of this.
So if you're doing end to end OS X implementations, this,
these are some good vendors to
be looking at for their solution.
So at this time, let me turn things over to Ken McLeod.
Taking, taking us on with verifying the trust.
Ken?
>> Okay.
>> Thanks.
>> Thanks Shawn.
Hi everybody.
My name is Ken McLeod.
I am engineer...
Let's hear it for Shawn.
( Applause )
I'm an engineer in the Data Security group at Apple.
We're responsible for the security frameworks and the
security infrastructure that applications take advantage of.
It's kind of a hard thing to describe to people.
In fact, I had a relative of mine ask me,
you know, what is it that you do again?
And I explained it like this.
You know the commercial that we've been
showing where there's a Mac guy and PC guy.
And he said to me, oh yeah, I've seen that commercial.
And I said, well you know how the PC guys, there's one
where he has security guy that's standing behind him
and he's got the dark glasses and he's in black,
and he's constantly asking the PC guy questions.
And he said, yeah, I've seen that.
But that's not you is it?
Said, no, no, no.
But what that commercial didn't show you
is the Mac guy has a security guy too.
Oh really?
Yeah. And you didn't see him because he was over there
at the door checking everyone's ID when they came in.
And that way he didn't have to bug Mac guy all the time.
He was checking everyone's ID.
And trust validation is a lot like that.
It's a lot like checking people's ID.
And when we talk about trust validation on OS X, we're
really talking about getting the answers to two questions.
First question is who are you?
And the second question is can you do that?
Who are you and can you do that?
So for example, if I'm going to a web site
like Amazon and I want to buy something.
Before I type my credit card number
in there, I want to know who are you?
I want to have some assurance that that really is Amazon.
But it's not enough to just ask that question who are you.
You've gotta ask can you do that?
So if I go and I think I'm talking to
Amazon and I ask the question who are you?
And the response is Shawn Geddis, whoa wait a minute.
Shawn, I know is authorized to send email to
me, but you know running a website for Amazon?
Ah, I don't think so.
And at this point, the Mac security
guy comes out and he throws Shawn out.
Sorry Shawn.
( Laughter )
So before I got off the slide, trust validation is
different in Leopard than it used to be in Tiger.
And first of all I want to talk about how you
knew trust in Tiger and how that worked.
We use X509 certificate trust validation.
And what that means is when we're trying to decide if
something is trusted, they present us a certificate.
And we called that the leaf certificate
because it's at the end.
And we say, did anybody sign that?
Who signed that?
And we try to follow this chain and build a chain back
until we get eventually to a root certificate at the end
of the chain where we can't go any farther.
And that root certificate signed itself.
It has no signer.
And at that point, if that root certificate is trusted,
then we know that we can trust the leaf certificate.
So how do we get that root certificate
and how do we know it's trusted?
Well, we ship a thing called X509 anchors in the
system or at least we did in Tiger with a whole list
of third party CAs whose trust we are
relying on, who we implicitly trust.
CAs like Verisign, Thawte and various others.
And there's quite a few of those.
But they all live in a file called X509 anchors on
Tiger in system library keychains X509 anchors.
And if, the root CA for your certificate chain
was not in that file, then it wasn't trusted.
It was as simple as that.
There was one source of trust, the X509 anchors file.
Unfortunately there was a problem with that.
A, if you wanted to trust a new certificate for your
organization, you would have to get an administrator to put
that into the X509 anchors file manually.
And there's another problem too.
When you're trusting these CAs and these root CAs, they
may be issuing thousands and thousands of certificates.
And if you trust the root, you are implicitly
trusting anything that that root is issuing.
And you may not want to do that.
In Leopard we have a new model which is a multi tiered
model for trust which solves some of these problems.
Well, we also use X509 certificate trust validation.
We start with the leaf and we see if that chains
back to maybe an intermediate certificate.
Or even back to a root certificate until we get to the end.
We're saying wait a minute, this looks like the
slide you showed me just a minute ago for Tiger.
What's different?
In this case, it's not a root that we have to chain back to.
We have to chain back to what's called a trusted anchor.
And once we hit a trusted anchor,
then we know we can trust this.
In Leopard, we don't even have
to go back as far as the root.
We can say for example, this intermediate CA is trusted.
Once we've decided that it's trusted, we don't
have to go back any further in creating the chain.
And that it limits the scope of what we have to trust.
And in fact, any certificate can
be marked as a trusted anchor.
I don't have to go any further.
If I only care about trusting this
one certificate for this one website,
I don't have to trust everything all the way
back to the original issuer of that certificate.
And I can say in fact that they're not trusted.
So let's review.
In Tiger, there was one trust model.
You had to have the root certificate
in X509 anchors or it was not trusted.
Of course, if you were a user, you'd have to go get an
administrator to set up your machine and get that in there.
In Leopard there are a number of enhancement changes.
The first thing you probably will
notice or have already noticed is
that X509 anchors here we say are deprecated,
in fact it's destroyed, its deleted.
It's not there.
Why did you do that you say.
Well, we still provide all of those
certificates that used to be in X509 anchors.
They're now in a new chain change
called system root certificates.
And the idea here is that system
root certificates are provided
by the system and you don't ever need to touch them.
If you need to make changes, you can override
what it is that the system gives you.
And the place to override that if you want to
provide for example a certificate that all users
of your machine will trust, is to place
it in the system keychain instead.
The system keychain just happens to be
available to every user of the system.
But you don't have to place it there.
And in fact, it's no longer tied to the keychain
that you're in, whether or not you are trusted.
And that's a pretty important concept that I'll come back
in a minute, but the trust of a certificate no longer,
it no longer matters where that certificate lives.
So the other important thing here that's changed
is the, we've introduced the idea of trust domains.
Before we used to have one trust domain.
It went back to X509 anchors.
If it was in there, great.
It's trusted.
We have now the concept of a system trust domain which is
all of those certificates that we provide you out of the box
that are trusted sort of implicitly out of
the box on the system and its immutable.
That trust domain doesn't ever change.
So if you want to make additions to it
or say these certs I never want to trust,
you'll make those changes in the admin trust domain.
And that overrides the system trust
settings that it ships with.
if you're a user, you have the opportunity of
both overriding whatever the admin set up for you
as well as what we shipped with one caveat.
If you are running you know an organization or
maybe a lab where you don't want people doing that,
there is a way to cut that off and only
have the administrator trust domain active.
So in both cases, in both Tiger and Leopard, we will chain,
in order to build a chain of trust, back to a root CA,
the root CA can be responsible again for
issuing thousands upon thousands of certs.
And if you trust the root CA certificate,
you're trusting everything that it's issued
and everything that it will issue in the future.
And that's a awful lot of trust to extend.
So if you have a root CA or your organization issues one,
its important, its very important that you have a process
in place to keep the private keys
when you're issuing things secure.
And in fact, the certificates that are shipped in Mac
OS X in the system root certificates file have to go
through a process of, of web trust
to certification where they can show
that there is a process in place to keep that secure.
The change from Tiger to Leopard has big
implications if you are issuing your own CA.
And you're providing your root CA to other people.
There is a dividing line.
And on one side, is support for Tiger and
before, on the other side is the Leopard way.
So on Tiger you have to add it to X509 anchors like
you always have in order for the root to be trusted.
Going forward from Leopard, you'll want to put the
root certificate in the system keychain instead.
So if for example you're writing an installer script, a
command that's going to be your friend is user bin security.
And it has a command called add trusted cert.
And this has a lot of options which I'll go into.
But one of the flags that you can give it is to
say trust this cert in that admin trust domain
and that lets it be trusted on the system.
So how does a certificate become trusted on a machine?
Ideally, you don't have to do any work.
You can have a zero configuration thing and
then as you encounter a certificate that's new
and that isn't seen before or isn't trusted doesn't
go back to one of the trusted roots on the system.
You get a prompt.
You know is this okay?
Do you trust this?
You can also manually edit the trust settings of course
at any time with the keychain access application.
And you can use a command line tool.
Again I said, user bin security
is going to be your friend here.
It has an add trusted cert, but it also has
a trust setting import and export command
that lets you save and restore trust settings.
This dialogue may look familiar.
This is the standard certificate dialogue that asks
whether or not you trust a certificate on Mac OS X.
Safari uses this, iChat, Mail, you'll see it quite a bit.
And in fact your applications can call it as well.
It's in the security interface framework.
And this lets you show the certificate chain to the user
and let them make a decision about whether to trust it.
Now, there's one thing I want to point out with this dialogue.
This check box here says always trust these certificates.
And I can tell that this is a dialogue that
was from Mac OS X.4 rather than Leopard.
Because on Tiger there was only the option
to trust the entire chain all the way back
to the root with the root being an X509 anchors.
Because again remember that's the
only way on Tiger that trust occurred.
On Leopard it no longer has to always
trust all of the certificates of the chain.
And we'll see that in a minute.
So in the minute is here.
Let me show you, in fact, what I've been
talking about, if we can have the demo machine.
I will fire up Safari here.
And as I'm browsing of course I will eventually go to a site
in this case Mac OS forage dot org that has a certificate
that doesn't chain back, that to a root CA
or anything that I've currently trusted.
So when I encounter this dialogue, I can look at the
certificate it's presenting me and see oh, yes in fact,
Mac OS forage has a cert that is not known because
it was issued by open source dot apple dot com.
And that's not one of the trusted CAs that we ship with.
So we have a new option here.
And I no longer remember have to trust a
certificate chain all the way back to a root.
So this is a common thing.
I don't even have the root.
I don't even know how to get a root
certificate for open source dot apple dot com.
But I am pretty sure that I want to go to this
website and that I trust Mac OS forage dot org.
So I can say on Leopard, I only want to trust the Mac OS X
forage, or Mac OS forage certificate and not anything else
that issued it and I only want to
trust it when I'm going to this site.
I don't want to trust it for anything else.
So if I hit continue, in order to make
that change, I have to type in my password.
And at this point, I can click on the little
lock icon in Safari and examine the cert.
And I see it now tells me the certificate
is marked as trusted for this account.
Essentially what I've done is I
have marked it as a trusted anchor.
And when I'm building a certificate chain to
determine trust, I don't have to go any further
than this one certificate that I've trusted.
So let's look at another instance here.
Here's a test server over at Red Hat.
And oops, it looks like they don't have
a certificate that's trusted either.
So I'll look at it.
And I see that they've got a little
bit more of a chain going on.
And this Red Hat server that I want to go to has issued
by some certification authority here, Certificate Shack.
I haven't heard of Certificate Shack.
I don't know what they are.
And I don't know whether I want to trust them.
But I do want to trust the Red Hat server because you know
that is where I want to go and I want to keep going back there.
So in this case, I can decide just to trust the Red
Hat certificate without trusting all the certificates
or the entire chain or anything else that this
Certificate Shack might issue me in the future.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
And we go to the, the site.
And then when I look at the, the certificate, I
see that there is no chain beyond the certificate
that I trusted because there doesn't need to be.
So that's kind of the inline zero
configuration way of things.
The manual way of configuring what you'll often
do is you'll get a root certificate sent to you
or you download from a website for your organization.
Here I've got one for Ames Lab that's a root certificate.
So if I open it, it launches keychain access.
It asks me if I want to add the certificate to a keychain.
And remember in Leopard if we want the
certificate to be seen by all users
of the system, we want to put it in the system keychain.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
And now I get this new dialogue.
Now what is this asking me?
It's asking if I want to trust
this Ames Lab root certificate.
Well, didn't I just put it in the system keychain?
Ah! But remember it's no longer important
where it lives in order for the trust to occur.
The trust is separate and you have to specifically say
I trust this certificate and then it can live anywhere.
It doesn't have to be on a particular keychain.
So at this point I'll say yes, I want this trusted.
And now if I go over and I look in the system keychain,
in fact its there and its got this new little do hickey
that tells me that I have specifically
trusted it for all users of the system.
And in fact I can go to any point
and here is Certificate Shack's root
and I can decide to trust it later if I want to.
And of course there's a command line way of doing this.
Remember I told you that we have the security command.
And security add trusted cert is your friend.
In this case, there are a lot of options here
if you were going through the command line.
You don't have to trust at the
granularity of a single certificate,
but in fact you can place a lot more restrictions on it.
For example, there's a policy option
that lets you say I only want
to trust this certificate for SSL and nothing else.
I can specify an application constraint that says I only
want to trust this certificate in Safari and no other app.
Or policy specific string.
There's some allowed error options.
But let me go ahead and show you an
example of how you would use this.
I have a certificate file that I want to
populate on all my lab machines at work.
It's the Apple data security test CA.
And so I use this security add trusted cert,
add trusted cert command with the dash D option
which lets it know this is for the admin domain.
I want it trusted for all users.
The dash K option lets me specify that
I want to put it in the system keychain.
And then finally the file tells
me you know which cert it is.
So I'll go ahead and execute that and it just works
because I have a root shell that doesn't prompt.
And if I go back and look at keychain
access, let's look in the system keychain.
And now I see that I have this new cert in there, the
Apple data security test CA, which is marked as trusted.
Now there's a companion command
here that you'll find useful.
Security trust settings.
Now trust settings export has a couple of options for
either exporting the user's domain or the system domain.
And what that, this lets me do is essentially take a
snapshot of everything that's trusted on my machine
so I get the setting set up the way I want them
and then I can replicate that on to other machines
or go back to a saved, known trust setting state.
So here's an example.
I'll use trust settings export, again with the minus
D option that lets me export the admin trust domain.
And I'll dump that into a file called save trust settings.
So I do. It tells me that it was successful.
Now I'll go back here and I'll make some changes.
So let's, let's not trust this Ames Lab.
I never want to trust them.
I'll make that change.
Now we see that the trust setting is
changed and it's marked as not trusted.
And I don't know what this Bob's towing is, so let's
go ahead and you know we won't trust it either.
And now we come along later and I want to
go back to the saved trust settings state.
So I can use security trust settings import to go back
and take that file that I created and I could take it
to other machines and set them up the same way.
But I'll go ahead and blast those settings back into place.
Then if I look again, we see we're back to where we were.
Ames Lab is trusted, Bob's Towing is
trusted, Apple data security is trusted,
and that's how trust happens on Mac OS X.
But a more important thing maybe even than how they get
trusted is how can you actually create them yourself.
How do you get these things onto your machine?
How do you issue certificates?
And to talk about that, I'd like to ask Craig Mortenson
to come up and he'll show you the certificate assistant.
If we could have the slides back.
>> Wee! Yes.
( Pause )
>> Okay.
( Applause )
>> Okay. I'm Craig Mortenson.
I work with Ken on the data security team.
And we work on the frameworks as Ken had mentioned.
And I'm going to talk about, a little bit about the certificate
assistant and do a demo of it and also talk about how
to import some identities into your keychain.
Okay the certificate assistant has been around since Tiger.
Some of you have probably already used it.
We've greatly improved it for Leopard.
And I'll show you that in a minute.
The certificate assistant, it's a user friendly application
that guides you through the task of creating certificates,
creating certificate authorities
and evaluating certificate chains.
What's great about this, what's, excuse me.
What's great about the, the assistant is you
could create your own certificate authority
and distribute trusted certificates to users.
And this is done by email exchange.
This is done by email exchange between the CA and the user.
And finally what I'll do in the demo is
talking about doing certificate evaluations.
Okay. So what's new for Leopard is
the concept of signed invitations.
We had invitations in 10.4,
but in Leopard they're signed
because when they're signed you can have the
CA certificates embedded in the invitation.
So for security reasons you don't want
somebody modifying those certificates.
So the signature will fail if anybody tries to do that.
( Period of silence )
Okay. What's also new in Leopard is
the, the concept of a CA website.
The assistant will actually create a website
for the CA so users can go to this website
and download an invitation if they haven't gotten one.
And they can also download the CA certificates as well.
We also added some preset certificate types in Leopard.
One, the famous one that we worked on was code signing.
And some other ones that you could
do are S/MIME, VPN, and SSL.
And what's great about the assistant
is you don't have to know the details
about these certificates in order to set these up.
All right, so now I'm going to go to the demo.
( Period of silence )
Okay, so we have here is a user co frag, oh boy.
So what you saw earlier was a CA that Ken
was marked as not trusted and then trusted.
That was called Bob's Towing.
So Frank is an employee of Bob's Towing and he wants
to get an S/MIME certificate from
his boss to be able to sign emails.
So what he does is Frank just simply launches Mail.
( Period of silence )
And we see that he's got an invitation from Bob's Towing,
say that the CA is now ready to accept certificate requests.
So alls he has to do is click on the invitation.
And then you'll see the information from this CA right here.
The user just has to click continue at this point.
So while this is happening, this is going to take a while.
It says creating the key pair for Frank.
The default is 2048 bit RC key H pair.
And the, the CS, the CSR is actually being
created and it actually was sent to Bob's Towing.
So now we're going to go over to Bob.
( Period of silence )
Okay, so. Bob sees the certificate request email, says Frank
has sent you a certificate request, click on the enclosure.
So the CA is going to get a whole bunch of
these, depending on how many employees.
In this case, Bob's Towing has
only one employee and that's Frank.
So he's going to click on the CSR, this is
the actually certificate sending request.
And all Bob has to do is just click continue.
Because we're, we only have one CA on this machine.
And if, if Bob wanted to actually override the defaults and
say well, I'll, I'm going to make him an S/MIME certificate
and it's going to be able to do code signing and a bunch
of over things, but we're not going to do that for now.
We're just going to do the demo for S/MIME.
( Period of silence )
Okay, so what we have here is the email that's
composed with the certificate that was just created.
And Bob just sends it off.
Okay. And then in the end of the certificate
assistant you'll see this is the actual certificate
that was created for Frank.
And that's the one that was sent off.
So now we'll go back to Frank.
( Period of silence )
And we got the email back from Bob
and it says here is the certificate.
Click on the enclosure.
Goes into the log in Keychain.
And you can see there is Frank's identity.
So now just to show how it works here,
if Frank wanted to send an email,
you can see right now, now he's able to sign his emails.
So Frank's all set.
Okay so now I'm going to show you how
to create a certificate authority.
We'll go back to Bob here.
Now Bob's already created a certificate authority,
but we're going to just go ahead and create another one.
I'll show you how we create a root.
So the certificate assistant is
invoked using keychain access.
The other ones were just simply files, you
click on it, it launches the assistant.
But this is like the main entry point for it.
So we're going to create a certificate authority.
We're going to call it Bob's certificate authority.
The other one of course was called Bob's Towing.
It's going to be a self signed root CA.
By default it's going to be creating, going to be
distributing S/MIME certificates right here.
And the, the default key pair would
be for this CA would 2048 bit RSA.
If you wanted to override these defaults, you can do that.
But we're not going to do that for now.
Here's where its creating that CA
website that I talked about earlier.
And this is a button where you can actually
look at the CA website that was created.
Okay? So this is automatically created.
On this case its on Bob's iDisk, but you could
specify an alternate location for this.
And so here it's just you can click
here to download an invitation.
So if the user hasn't gotten that invitation email from
Bob, they can simply go to this website and download them.
And they can also download the CA
certificates that make up the chain.
So and once you download those you can
install them with keychain access.
( Period of silence )
Okay, so now, now that we've created a root, oops.
We are going to create a intermediate certificate authority.
So we say create certificate authority again.
In this case we're going to call it
( Period of silence )
Make it an intermediate.
And again, we'll make this one
distributing S/MIME certificates.
Now in order to be an intermediate CA, it has to be
assigned by another CA or the, in this case the root.
So we'll just choose Bob's Towing.
And we can actually see the, the
Bob's Towing certificate right there.
It's creating the CA website again for this one.
And you can actually see the actual certificate
that was created for this CA in this, at this point.
You could also, this is where Bob
would be mailing the invitations.
So if he clicked mail invitation, this is one we saw
earlier and so we can type in Frank or any other people
that he wants to advertise this to and sends it off.
( Period of silence )
Okay, so now what I'm going to do is show
you how to import some identities.
I've got some identities in my
documents folders that are PKCS12 files.
And so we're going to import Alice.
And it's really simple.
It's just, you click on the file, specify the keychain
you want it to go into, in this case the log in keychain.
Since it was wrapped as a
P12 file, it's got a password for it.
And you could see Alice has been
imported into the log in keychain.
Okay so now we've got, you can see
I've got another one here called Chris.
But we're going to use the security import command.
Oh boy.
( Period of silence )
Okay. So here we're using security import.
Chris dot B12.
We're going to put into Bob's keychain.
We're not going to put it in the log in keychain.
And then here in this case the password is Chris.
And it said it, it already imported the identity.
So if we go back, we see Chris.
So that, those are just two examples
of how you can import some identities.
It, you can import HM files and
all kinds of documents just
by double clicking on them in the Finder.
Okay, so that's it for the demo.
And now I'm going to ask Shawn to come back up.
( Applause )
>> Thank you Craig.
So to just kinda wrap this up as, as a summary,
hopefully we've given you a much better
insight, many of you even on 10.4.
But really better understanding what identities are, how
you can manage them, doing the obtaining of them, use,
utilizing them, even issuing the identities themselves.
And understanding the trust model.
Remember as, as Ken mentioned there's a huge
change in the trust model going from 10.4 to 10.5.
And hopefully you've seen as well as we've gone
through this process, both from the application side,
from the certificate assistant side and even the
trust model that we're working very hard to make PKI,
which is a very complex service when you're dealing with
all of these different components we talked about early on.
We're really working hard to make
that an environment that just works.
Again the, the zero configuration approach for the
management of these, these very complex services.
So with that said, there's a little bit more
information depending on the where you're coming from.
If you're a developer getting into the security services
like certificate and PKI side, Craig would be your best,
Craig Keithley would be your
best contact from the developer side.
And if you're on the enterprise side, government, commercial
space, I largely kind of interface with a lot of those folks
in kind of the deployment, kind of the management of that.
So depending on where you fit in this space, two contacts.
Some of the other areas that give you some
really good information is those of you that are,
are going to be issuing your own certificates,
creating your own certificate authority,
look at Apple's root certificate authority website.
You can see a lot of the appropriate information
and background on, on what Apple's done as well.
And of course since this is all security
related and it fits into the CDSA deal,
being on the CDSA mailing list is
a great resource for many of you.